ames encryption (#1091)
urbit/docs: arvo/ames/cryptography.md

not all, of the calls to cryptography-related tasks (encryption, signing,
decrypting, and authenticating) are peformed utilizing the `+acru` core.

## Packet encryption and authentication {#packets}

Each Urbit ship possesses two networking keypairs: one for encryption, and one
for authentication. We often refer to these two keypairs as though they were a
single keypair because they are stored as a single atom. [Elliptic Curve
Diffie-Hellman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic-curve_Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman)
is used for encryption, while [Elliptic Curve Digital Signature
Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm)
is used for authentication

The encrypted payload of each packet is a `$shut-packet`, which is the `+jam` of
a cell with the `bone`, message number, and message fragment or ack (see
[Ames](@/docs/ames/ames.md) for more information on packet structure). The
message fragment is signed using the authentication key. It is encrypted using
[`+en:crub:crypto`](@/docs/arvo/reference/cryptography.md#en) found in
`sys/zuse.hoon`, which utilizes the 256-bit AES-SIV algorithm.

## Diffie-Hellman key exchange {#key-exchange}

> For each foreign ship a given ship has met, `$ames-state` contains a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each foreign ship a given ship has communicated with, `$ames-state` contains a
```

    ++  de  |~([a=@ b=@] *(unit @))                     ::  symmetric de, soft
    ++  dy  |~([a=@ b=@] *@)                            ::  symmetric de, hard
    ++  en  |~([a=@ b=@] *@)                            ::  symmetric en
    ++  ex  ^?                                          ::  export
      |%  ++  fig  *@uvH                                ::  fingerprint
          ++  pac  *@uvG                                ::  default passcode
          ++  pub  *pass                                ::  public key
          ++  sec  *ring                                ::  private key
      --  ::ex                                          ::
    ++  nu  ^?                                          ::  reconstructors
      |%  ++  pit  |~([a=@ b=@] ^?(..nu))               ::  from [width seed]
          ++  nol  |~(a=ring ^?(..nu))                  ::  from ring
          ++  com  |~(a=pass ^?(..nu))                  ::  from pass
      --  ::nu                                          ::
    --  ::acru                                          ::
```

As the `+acru` core is merely an interface, the details on how it is utilized

> may vary according to the cryptosuite implemented in it. We summarize what each

Reviewer: Isn't the point of the interface that you can _utilize_ it in a consistent way, but that underlying _implementation_ may vary?

Author: Right, I think what I had in mind was that you'd utilize different cryptosuites in different situations. Or maybe I just flubbed. Either way, you're right it is less confusing to say implemented here. https://github.com/urbit/docs/pull/1091/commits/fefe4c1695f63a65f79e7ac0a3946ff57d98553c

core is utilized for here, but see
[`crub:crypto`](@/docs/arvo/reference/cryptography.md#crub) for more details on
how the specific cryptosuite utilized by Ames is implemented.

#### `+as:acru`

This core is used for the standard asymmetric cryptographic operations: encrypting
(`+seal`), signing (`+sign`), authenticating (`+sure`), and decrypting (`+tear`).

#### `+ex:acru`

> This core stores keys and their fingerprints. `+sec` is the secret key (which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This core is used to extract keys and their fingerprints. `+sec` is the secret key (which
```

Or something along these lines.
